Now, let us consider the question,
How does Jehovah care
for those who are humble?
Now, humility is a quality
that is part of our figurative heart.
And just like other qualities of the heart
—like kindness, mildness, patience—
humility is a quality that we cannot see.
Even so, have you ever said
about a brother or sister
in your congregation or here at Bethel
that that brother or that sister
is so humble?
Now, what made you say that?
Did you see a little cloud
filled with humility
hovering above the brother or sister?
No, but you must have seen something
that made you conclude
that a brother or sister is humble.
So, what was that something?
Now, to answer, think of this comparison:
Imagine you walk into a store
and you see a display
of boxes with chocolate.
The boxes look nice,
but you wonder
what is the quality of the chocolates.
Then a store clerk gives you
a chocolate as a sample.
You taste it.
Mm, that’s good!
Now you know what is in the box.
So, what is the lesson of this little story?
Well, just like tasting a sample chocolate
reveals the quality
of the chocolate in the box,
so seeing an act of humility
reveals the depth of humility
in someone’s heart.
After all, if we don’t prove
by words or by actions our humility,
no one will know that we have it.
So when do we have opportunities
to give out samples, so to speak,
of our humility?
Now, the Watchtower  article
that is the source of today’s comments
mentions three situations
that may test
the depth and genuineness of our humility.
The three situations are these:
when we receive counsel,
when others receive privileges of service,
or when we face new circumstances.
Now, today’s comments focus
on the third situation.
They focus on the changes of assignments
that have been received
by a good number
of traveling overseers and their wives,
Bethelites, brothers and sisters
in other forms of full-time service,
as well as by coordinators
of the bodies of elders.
Now, why can we say
that these brothers and sisters
offered a beautiful sample of their humility
by accepting their changes of assignment?
To answer, note this quote
from the Watchtower  comments:
“Such adjustments were not easy
“for these brothers and sisters to make.
“Obviously, they felt attached
to their former assignment,
“in many cases
one that they had cherished for years.
“Some went through a ‘grieving’ process
as they adjusted to their new circumstances.”
“A ‘grieving’ process”
—The Watchtower
does not often use that expression.
But in the case
of those who were asked
to give up an assignment
that they dearly loved,
it is a proper expression to use.
Though facing new circumstances
was difficult,
these brothers and sisters
who used to serve at Bethel
or in the traveling work
accepted the change with humility.
Now, how did Jehovah help them?
Well, we find an answer at Isaiah 57:15,
which is the text for today.
Now, in the beginning of the verse,
Isaiah is speaking.
He says about Jehovah:
“For this is what
the High and Lofty One says,
who lives forever
and whose name is [Jehovah].”
Now, then Jehovah begins to speak.
He confirms what Isaiah said
but adds a surprising thought to it.
Jehovah says: “I reside
“in the high and holy place,
“but also with those crushed
and lowly in spirit.”
Now, let’s pause here for a moment.
One Bible reference work says
that the verb “reside,” or “dwell,”
mentioned in the beginning
of the sentence
is implied in the second part
of the sentence.
So we could read the sentence as follows:
‘I reside in the high and holy place,
‘but I also reside
with those crushed and lowly in spirit.’
Now, think about this statement
made by Jehovah.
Is it not amazing and heartwarming?
Note the combination of qualities
that he expresses.
He is “high” and “holy”
but also nearby and humble.
He is mighty and powerful
but also attentive and tender
in his feelings with lowly ones.
Now, also note this:
Jehovah did not say,
‘I see those who are lowly.’
He did not say,
‘I hear those who are lowly.’
But he said:
‘I reside with those who are lowly.’
Now, to understand this verse better,
let us consider a few questions.
First, what is the meaning of “reside”?
Well, one Bible dictionary defines
the Hebrew word translated “reside”
as “settle down.”
Now, what comes to your mind
when you hear the expression “settle down”?
Does the word make you think of a visitor
who rushes in and leaves quickly?
No.
Instead, it makes us think of a visitor
who settles in an easy chair,
leans back,
and takes his time to stay with us.
In Jehovah’s case, he resides,
or settles down for a visit, with us
by means of his holy spirit.
Another question:
What does Jehovah do when he resides with us?
Now, note the last part of the verse.
There you see another word
that is mentioned two times.
We read:
“To revive the spirit of the lowly
“and to revive the heart
of those being crushed.”
Now, “to revive” means
to raise from discouragement and depression.
Thus, in this precious scripture,
Jehovah promises that he will take his time
to be with his humble servants
who are discouraged or even crushed.
And why does Jehovah reside with us
when we are discouraged?
To help us to regain the inner peace
and the inner strength that we need
to deal with challenging circumstances
and to continue serving Jehovah with joy.
Now, that is the way
in which Jehovah cares
for all his humble servants,
and that is also the way
in which Jehovah helped
our brothers and sisters
who humbly accepted a change of assignment.
Jehovah gently helped them
to let their feelings of sadness fade away
and to embrace the joys
that were waiting in their new assignment.
Now, one couple who received a new assignment
related how an illustration
helped them to keep in mind
what had changed
and what had not changed.
The couple said:
“We think of a parent and children.
“A parent may decide to move a child
“from one bedroom
to another room in the house,
“but the child still lives in the same house
and receives the same love and care
from the parent.”
And then the couple added:
“Likewise, Jehovah may decide
to move his servants
“from one form of full-time service
to another one,
“but they still live in the same house,
so to speak,
and receive the same love and protection
from Jehovah.”
Indeed, as that couple observed,
our assignments may change,
but the love that we receive from Jehovah
does not change.
In fact, when we show humility,
Jehovah’s warm feelings toward us
are bound to increase.
So, what did we consider?
Jehovah cares for all his servants
who are humble.
When we observe
that we are overwhelmed with sadness,
Jehovah will reside with us
in order to revive us.
Our brothers and sisters
who humbly accepted a change of assignment
experience how Jehovah helped them
to overcome
their initial feelings of disappointment.